# About xo #

xo is a cli tool to generate Golang types and funcs based on a database schema.
xo is designed to vastly reduce the overhead/redundancy in writing from scratch
common Go types and funcs for common database tasks.

Note that while the code generated by xo is production quality, it is not the
goal, nor the intention for xo to be a "silver bullet" or to completely
eliminate writing SQL / Go code. 

That said, xo can likely get you 99% "of the way there" on medium or large
database schemas and 100% of the way there for small or trivial database
schemas. In short, xo is a great launching point for developing standardized
packages for standard database abstractions/relationships.

Currently, xo only supports PostgreSQL, however there are plans to add
support for other database types, notably MySQL, Oracle, and SQLite.

## Design, Origin, and History ##

xo was originally developed while migrating a "large" application written in
PHP to Go. The schema in use in the original app, while well designed, had
become inconsistent over multiple iterations/generations, mainly due to
different naming styles adopted by various developers and database admins over
the preceding years. 

This made for a relatively large headache in terms of unraveling old PHP code
as the code and API had drifted from the underlying names / fields as the
application code had also evolved through multiple rounds of different lead
developers. Additionally, the code made use of multiple ORM-likes, most notably
Doctrine, and a custom, in-house semi-ORM-like code generator, conceptually
similar to this project.

As such, after a manual first round of standardizing names, dropping
accumulated cruft, and a small amount relationships changes in the schema, and
fixing the related PHP code, it was ready to rewrite the actual application in Go.

In order to keep a similar and consistent work-flow for the developers, a code
generator similar to what was previously used with PHP was written for Go.
Additionally, at this time, but tangential to the story here, the API
definitions were ported over from JSON to Protobuf to make use of the code
generation there.

xo is part of the fruits of those development efforts, and it is hoped that
others will be able to use and expand xo to support other databases (SQL or
otherwise).

In writing clean and consistent Go code, 

# Installation #

Install in the usual way for go:
```sh
go get -u github.com/knq/xo
```

# Usage #

Please note that xo is **NOT** an ORM. Rather, xo generates Go code by using
database metadata to query the types and relationships within the database, and
then generates representative Go types and funcs for well-defined database
relationships.

For example, given the following schema:
```PLpgSQL
CREATE TABLE authors (
  author_id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  isbn text NOT NULL DEFAULT '' UNIQUE,
  name text NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
  subject text NOT NULL DEFAULT ''
);

CREATE INDEX authors_name_idx ON authors(name);

CREATE TABLE books (
    book_id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    author_id integer NOT NULL REFERENCES authors(author_id),
    title text NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
    year integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 2000
);

CREATE INDEX books_title_idx ON books(title, year);
```

xo will generate the following:
```go

```
